---
layout : default
title : Computer Scientists are Hindus!!
permalink: /csrhd
---
{% include home_index.html%}
## Computer Scientists are Hindus!!
Hello..., Please do not judge this post by its title. This thought struck me when I was exploring few things about Hinduism.  Even though I used Hindus in the title, I do not like this word. Rather, I would prefer the phrase "Practitioners of Sanatana Dharma."

Vedas are the scriptures that form the basis for these practices. They teach you how to attain moksha - spiritual liberation. One of the methods to attain moksha is through wisdom. Vedantas or Philosophies give the framework to explore and enlarge the inner self to attain this wisdom. There are two types of Vendantas - Dwaita Vedanta and Adwaita Vedanta. These Vendantas  have two main concepts

Atma - Soul of a creature

Brahma - Anything other than Atma, One responsible for all existence

Dwaita Vedanta depends on the thought that Atma is different from Brahma. In this Vedanta, Atma reaching Brahma is called Moksha.

Adwaita Vedanta depends on the non-dualism of Brahma. It says that Brahma is Atma and Atma is Brahma. One should search inner self to find Brahma in Atma. Finding that Brahma, One responsible for all existence, is called Moksha.

If we convert this into our known mathematical equation
<p style="text-align: center;">Atma ⊂ Brahma
or
Atma ⊆ Brahma and Brahma ⊆ Atma</p>
Let us talk about computer scientists. These are the people who try to solve problems using silicon. They classify these problems into deterministically solvable in polynomially time(P) and non deterministically solvable in polynomial time(NP).

One set of people believe that
<p style="text-align: center;">P ≠ NP but P ⊂ NP.</p>
Other sets of people believe that
<p style="text-align: center;">P ⊆ NP and NP ⊆ P.</p>
Both Practitioners of Sanatana Dharma, who are called Hindus, and Computer Scientists are constantly searching for that one substance, corresponding to equations, that solve these equations.

Since they are looking for similar solutions, I used the title "Computer Scientists are Hindus", Other than that as per my knowledge there is no relationship between these two things!!  I hope you find this little interesting.