---
layout : default
title : Check your rp_filter !!
permalink: /rpfilter
---
{% include home_index.html%}
## Check your rp_filter !!




In this post, I will discuss one of the important kernel parameters which might cause havoc if we do not use it properly. First, I will discuss the problem situation and how we arrived at rp_filter.
<h4>Incident</h4>
Around 10 PM, one of our project managers called me and told me that they were not able to log in (SSH) to one of their servers. He asked me to check it immediately as they were running a few important models on that box.

He gave me the hostname of the box. I tried <em>ping</em> and <em>traceroute</em> without any luck. We have two interfaces on the box - management and production. I tried pinging management IP and it worked. With this, we got to know that the box is up and running but only production IP is not reachable.

In the meantime, I verified with the network engineer and he said that the subnet of the box is reachable. Now, we know that the issue is with this particular box. We checked routes on the box to verify how traffic is routed on this box.

Kernel IP routing table

<em><strong>Destination    Gateway        Genmask       Flags  Metric     Ref  Use  Iface</strong></em><br>
0.0.0.0              172.16.200.248         0.0.0.0       UG      0        0     0    eno3<br>
0.0.0.0              172.16.200.248         0.0.0.0       UG      0        0     0    eno3<br>
10.0.0.0            172.16.200.254         255.0.0.0      UG      0        0     0    eno3<br>
<span style="color:#ff0000;">172.16.0.0        172.16.202.1      255.255.0.0    UG     0   0       0      eno1</span><br>
172.16.0.0        172.16.200.254        255.240.0.0    		UG    0        0      0    eno3<br>
172.16.200.0    0.0.0.0                 255.255.254.0       U     0        0      0    eno3<br>
172.16.202.0    0.0.0.0                 255.255.255.0       U     0        0      0    eno1<br>

<strong><em>Note</em></strong>: <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Ips mentioned here are modified for this post.</span>

The interface settings on the box are

<span style="color:#ff0000;">lo</span>:       inet 127.0.0.1/8 scope host lo<br>
<span style="color:#ff0000;">eno1</span>: inet 172.16.202.49/24 brd 172.16.202.255 scope global eno1<br>
<span style="color:#ff0000;">eno3</span>: inet 172.16.200.62/23 brd 172.16.201.255 scope global eno3<br>

We were trying to access this box from 172.16.xxx.xxx network. From the routing table, it is clear that the packets are coming from the eno3 interface and going through eno1.  This is called <em><strong>Asymmetric routing. </strong></em>It clearly rang the bell that the problem is related to rp_filter values.

sysctl -ar '\.rp_filter'

<span style="color:#ff0000;">net.ipv4.conf.eno3.rp_filter = 1</span>

setting this value to 0 solved the problem. Now, let's discuss what is this parameter and what are the values associated with this parameter. The main purpose of this filter is to avoid DOS(Denial of Service) attacks through IP spoofing. Please refer to the internet to read more about DOS. To simply put, when all of the connections are held open trying to synchronize with devices they don’t exist, no new connections can be established and the bad guys have won. rp_filter help to avoid these kind of situations, These are 3 values that can be set for the <span class="s1">rp_filter</span>:
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th style="text-align:center;">Value</th>
<th style="text-align:center;">Meaning</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:center;">0</td>
<td>No source address validation is performed and any packet is forwarded to the destination network</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:center;">1</td>
<td>Strict Mode as defined in RFC 3074. Each incoming packet to a router is tested against the routing table and if the interface that the packet is received on is not the best return path for the packet then the packet is dropped.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:center;">2</td>
<td>Loose mode as defined in RFC 3074 Loose Reverse Path. Each incoming packet is tested against the routing table and the packet is dropped if the source address is not routable through any interface. This allows for asymmetric routing where the return path may not be the same as the source path.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>